# KABLOSAN-A.P.E.S.

The atmosphere of Venus is mostly composed of CO2 and other greenhouse gasses, it is extensively inefficient or impossible for solar panels to produce energy. While also winds near to the surface is almost to non-existent, surface of the Venus is mostly stagnant and shares deep similarities with deep ocean surfaces. So why not buoyancy then ?

A.P.E.S. establishes itself as an alternative mechanical energy storage method in the form of buoyancy for future Venus missions and Venusian probes instead of radioisotopes, solar power, wind etc. Since the atmosphere of Venus is immensely dense, hot and pressurized, achieving lift/buoyancy is fairly easy. Our team have referenced Perseverence's and LLISSE's energy consumption ( 10 Watt/H - 110 Watt/H )as a min-max comparison for our energy system requirements for our imaginary Venus probe. Additionaly we have designed special Carbon Fiber capsules that will get lifted by buoyancy, allowed in a pre-planned manner, to meet our probe's energy requirements.

Carbon Fıber is chosen since it is a viable material that is actively used and proven in modern commercial plane fuselages etc. strong and extendible while it is chemically durable and corrosive resilient. In order to reduce the thickness of Carbon Fiber walls of the capsules and achieve structural support with less weight, we will add Helium gas to inside of the capsules to a certain Pascal value before the launch. While the thickness of Carbon Fiber will be enough to hold Helium inside in the vacuum of space, Helium will provide structural support in Venus' 9300 KPa atmosphere.

As aforementioned before, there will be more than one capsule which would be a desired precaution for cases like main rope breakdown. Ropes of the capsules will be made with Kevlar insidings with sufficient Carbon Fibre  coating thus will be resilient to outer effects of the atmosphere and connect Probe and capsules. Each capsule, with their individual rope, will be connected to their own seperate spools.  Each capsule will have an emergency rope which connects to their nearest selected capsule. Thus if a main rope, from probe to a capsule, fails due to fatigue etc. emergency rope will hold the capsule and prevent waste of energy.
